>> Scott Moss: Let's get in here and
do some database stuff.
So now we're going to make
some attendees data, so
what I'm gonna do here is,
in utils I'll make another file,
I'm gonna call it attendees.ts,
I'll grab my imports.
I'll talk a little bit about them since
you will be using this database stuff, so,
db from at db, that's the actual ORM
from Drizzle that we'll be using.
Don't worry, you never use Drizzle,
if you've used any ORM in your life,
you'll be fine, if you've never used
an ORM, it's an SDK for a SQLite database.
So, it's pretty simple, it's type-checked.
You'll figure it out, it's not too
difficult, and you'll be falling along.
These imports from the schema are the
tables themselves, we can use them to
reference different fields and things
like that, we need them for our queries.
These imports are filters for our query,
so eq stands for equal, sql is actually
a function that lets you write raw
SQL in our queries if we need to.
And then delays the function I talked
about, it's just going to delay a random
time so we can simulate a delay from
an actual database and things like that.
So, or an actual, we do have actual
database, but from like a slower database.
So we're gonna make a function called
get attendees count for dashboard, so
let's do that.
>> Scott Moss: Long name but
at least you know what it does, right?
This is async function,
this is gonna take in a user ID,
so I could take any user ID or
I could actually just pass.
I could just call our function,
get current user inside of here and
actually had that at one point.
But it completely changes the behavior
of the whole app when I do that and
I'll tell you why when you get to caching.
>> Scott Moss: So first,
I'm just gonna simulate a delay here,
obviously you won't do this in production
>> Scott Moss: Unless you wanna keep your
job, so you had a delay.
And you're like, hey, I can speed it up,
and you took away the delay.
And they're like, wow, you're really good,
you need to act twice as fast.
But other than that,
don't put that in [LAUGH] production.
And then from here, we're going to,
I'm just gonna copy this query.
This is not a database course, I don't
wanna go on and write all this, but
I will explain it for
those who are curious.
Basically what we are doing here is we
are saying, we wanna select this field.
We created a field called totalAttendees,
which runs a SQL query that
does a distinct,
if you don't know what distinct means,
it just means like dedupe, just dedupe
all these attendees by their ID.
From the events table, the events
table has a join on it for RSVPs.
The RSVPs table has a join on it for
attendees.
And I just wanna find all
the events who's created by
ID equals this current user ID and
group by events ID.
So this is just gonna return
something that looks like this,
an object with, I'm sorry,
an array with objects on it.
That's a totalAttendees with a number.
>> Scott Moss: And then from there,
because my schema is not good and
my querying skills aren't that good,
we're gonna have to do some JavaScript
to reduce that down to one number.
Now, if you put this on a PR, I would
approve it, I'd say, figure out how to do
that with a SQL query and get that out of
here, but we're not doing that right now.
So, here we go, we got the total.
This is again just gonna reduce the array
of objects with these numbers down to just
one number.
So we just have one number that
says here's attendees you have.
So we got that and
then we can just return that total.
>> Scott Moss: Again, you can do whatever
you want inside these server functions.
So we have our attendees here.
>> Scott Moss: Now we want to go add that
to the page that shows the attendees, and
for us that's gonna be the home page,
which is the children inside the layout.
So, we're gonna go there, so
let's go back to dashboard.
Let's go to page TSX on
the root of dashboard,
make sure you're on the root of dashboard.
Go to that page, this is where
the attendees count is gonna show,
that's gonna be the bottom right.
I mean, I guess I should just show,
I should just go there and show you,
it's gonna be the bottom right
part of the dashboard, this part.
>> Scott Moss: Okay, so let's do that,
so first get current user, so,
user = wait getCurrentUser.
There we go, and
then we can get the data from wait
getAttendeesCountForDashboard and
we can pass in user ID.
And I know for sure that line,
if line six runs there is a user,
because if there isn't a user, it would've
redirected inside of this function.
>> Scott Moss: So now we have our data,
>> Scott Moss: And
then I think I have some JSX for
this, so let's go and get that.
>> Scott Moss: It's pretty simple,
so, yeah,
I was gonna return a big number
in the middle of that cell.
So nothing crazy,
let's just get rid of this.
Oops.
>> Scott Moss: There we go, I'll just
call this count like it is there.
Okay, so now we have that you might not
have anything here because you don't have
anything in your database.
That's totally fine, I thought of that.
So in another tab,
you could run the seed script that's
going to put some stuff in your database.
You have to have a user in your database
though, so make sure you sign up first.
The C script will not work if you
don't have a user in your database, so
sign up with the sign up form just so
a user gets created.
Again, if you need to check if the user
is created, you can go to the studio and
you can see if the user is created.
Make sure there is a user signed up.
As long as there's one user
database the C script will work.
So now once you have a user in
your database, you can run npm.
Wait, actually you have more
than one user in a database, so
I'm gonna [LAUGH] delete one of them right
quick, cause it just picks the first one.
So give me a second while I do that,
I'm a delete, I'm a delete this one.
You know what?
No, no, no,
I'm going to delete the other one.
This one already has so much on it,
so I'll delete this one, and
then I'm gonna delete.
I'm deleting all the other stuff
that already seeded in my database,
you don't probably have any of this stuff,
but I already did it so much.
So I'm just gonna start fresh,
so we're on the same page.
Okay, so all I have right now
is one user in my database,
this is probably where
you are if you signed up.
You only have it using your database and
nothing else.
Okay, if you are here,
then you can do npm run db seed.
And that'll do this,
you can see it created two attendees and
some rsvps, and
it also created some events for you.
So if I go back to my studio, I refresh
this, I'll see there's some events,
there's some rsvps,
there's some attendees.
>> Scott Moss: Yes.
>> Student: How do you add types
to the data from the DB so
that something like
count.totalAttendees is not an unknown.
>> Scott Moss: That's a great question, so
it is in fact already typed by default.
I broke it because it can't infer this
custom SQL statement that I made,
but I'm pretty sure this custom
SQL statement takes in, lemme see.
Yes, it takes the, custom SQL
statement here takes in a generic,
so I guess I could just say number,
and then now it's a number.
>> Scott Moss: So, but by default,
it already is tight, but
it just couldn't infer this string.
It has no idea what the string is,
it could be anything.
So yeah.
>> Student: And what do you
like about Drizzle over Prisma?
>> Scott Moss: It's a great question.
I actually just started using
Drizzle a couple weeks ago and
I'm using it in production now.
And I didn't switch because I didn't
like Prisma, actually I like Prisma.
I switched because the database
that we were using at the time,
I don't remember which one it was, didn't
have really good support for Prisma.
So we had to switch and
Drizzle was like the second best one.
I mean, that's all an opinion, but
it was pretty good, so I was like, okay,
I'll try it.
And then once I started using it,
I realized it's just so
much better to have a schema in
a JavaScript TypeScript file than it
is in a non JavaScript TypeScript file.
Prisma is a Prisma file,
which you can't do things like this,
I can't make dynamic schemas.
I can't have functions, it's static
in nature, so that's one thing.
And then with Prisma, you have to generate
the client to output the TypeScript,
whereas with Drizzle, it's just
TypeScript, it's just a TypeScript file.
So the types are just there
as soon as you hit save,
you don't have to generate anything,
it just knows.
So, I do like that, it is a little
learning curve to like use the querying
language with Drizzle, but
I've come to like prefer it over Prisma.
Like Prisma seen,
Prisma like, took a different approach of
like, how do we make this really easy.
And for me, it became less
powerful whereas Drizzle's like,
we want it to be extremely powerful,
but we still want it to be simple.
We'll let you pick, so I prefer that, but
also the biggest thing was migrations.
Handling migrations with Prisma was cool
when it came to schema migrations, but
when it came to like backfilling
columns from breaking changes,
that was really difficult.
They had like no solution for
that because the way that Prisma works,
whenever you make a schema change,
you gotta generate a new client.
So if you have a new client and
you're trying to back fill some data
from a previous version of your schema,
the client isn't aware of that
because the types changed.
So [LAUGH] it was really hard and
I don't think they really
have a good solution for it.
So, that was like the biggest push,
was like we had a different
database that didn't support it.
Because it was a serverless database
over HTTP and Prisma's support for
that is like always like
experimental usage on risk and
migrations were just
really tough with Prisma.
I'm sure there's a way to get around the
use case that we had, but with Drizzle,
the migrations are programmatic,
you literally make a migration file.
In TypeScript JavaScript and you run that,
whereas with Prisma it's a CLI that you
have to run and
it was just a lot more complicated.
But I like them both, but Drizzle for now.
Okay, so yeah, let's see if this
actually shows something on a page.
There we go, yeah, so it works.